---
layout: post
title:      "Why did I start to learn software development?"
date:       2020-06-20 21:45:02 -0400
permalink:  why_did_i_start_to_learn_software_development
---


I started to become interested in software development after I took a web design certificate class, and got a little taste of what coding is about.

I had been in a small Chinatown printing company for about 10 years designing restaurant menu, business cards and flyers…and I loved spending time on the computer. However, my old company (their clientele, rather) didn’t allow for much esthetic design to happen…all they cared about was putting as much information on whatever surface they got…Of course, I cannot force my opinion onto them, they are the one who were paying for their products. When restaurant started to use the internet to take orders, I started to think, “I need to move online too.”

That was how I got started to learn web design… but design is really subjective. And I found myself loathing to the imagination of presenting a design that I spent time making, but rejected by an imaginative client… I figured being on the backend would not face this problem…Of course, I have not gotten into the backend development industry yet…I cannot tell what drawbacks it might bring. But for the meantime, I am just enjoying learning how to code.

When I was in elementary school, I used to think that I was going to become a Japanese style manga artist, but I kept stopping all my manga projects on the first page. I got bored drawing the same character over and over. Of course, my drawing skill were not that good, maybe I didn’t have the gumption…I only knew my problem was I could not even draw 1 page of the story. LOL. But I didn’t give up on my passion. When I came to the US to study in college, I picked Fine Art as my major. One semester, my Abstract Painting 101 professor told us that we needed to bring back all the paintings that we did in the class, and I thought: What?? I threw them away already! They were just gray scale square painting and some color wheel painting that little kids had been painting in school…I didn’t know that I had to keep them? And I had no time to do the painting again, and would rather didn’t have to. So, I decided to drop the class, I didn’t really like abstract art anyways. Well, I actually dropped out of college because of that…I was an international student back then, and it was too late for me to drop any class that could still keep me in a full-time student schedule (required for international students.) I’m sure if I was able to talk to any of my advisors in college back then, I wouldn’t have to drop out of college, but I was too busy with my full time job. I cried, but was fine with the decision.

So, I learned to use some Adobe softwares to do some design. I like working on the computer. But I didn’t really have a formal training in design. And the experience in the small printing shop repelled me from becomeing a designer… Then, comes web design, and finally coding.

Time flies when I'm coding. I love the feeling of solving problems and passing tests. I love when they say programmer are lazy people, we do not want to repeatedly doing the same thing over and over. It took me this long (almost 40 years) to realized that I enjoyed problem solving. I could link that to my high school Math homework. I enjoyed solving the Math problems, especially the difficult ones. But I didn’t really get any compliments for solving all the Math problems in school because my dad expected me to get perfect scores on every subject. And my classmates copied my homework, so everybody got the problems solved in class. LOL. I’m not trying to blame anyone, but my interest in drawing started when one of my aunts complimented my drawing when I was about 6 or 7 years old. You can imagine how good a 6 year old’s drawing can be. But her compliment changed the course of my life. I’m grateful for her, and still love reading Japanese manga, and hope one day, when I have enough money to retire, I can take some figure drawing classes.
